5. Data availability
The data reported in this paper were deposited in the database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (accession no. phs001188.v2.p1; FUSION Tissue Biopsy Study-Islet Expression and Regulation by RNAseq and ATACseq). The code for deep learning analysis is available on GitHub at https://github.com/ParkerLab/PillowNet. Custom scripts are available at https://github.com/ParkerLab/islet_sci-ATAC-seq_2019. Additional URLs are provided in Table S7 of the Supplementary Data.


Data availability
We provide all imputed and processed observed tracks along with ChromHMM annotations and track sets for the 859 imputed and the final 833 quality controlled samples at https://epigenome.wustl.edu/epimap21. All other processed and intermediate datasets, including metadata (Supplementary Tables 1, 2), flagged samples, annotations, DHS locations, enhancer and promoter definitions, enhancer and promoter matrices, modules and matched RNA-seq data can be found at http://compbio.mit.edu/epimap. We also provide an interactive data and analysis browser through the website, including biosample and track exploration, the creation of custom track hubs, modules and motifs enrichments, and per-GWAS investigations for each of the GWAS and their lead SNPs63 (Supplementary Fig. 27).

Code availability
ChromImpute can be found at http://www.biolchem.ucla.edu/labs/ernst/ChromImpute. The analysis was performed with R (3.5 and 3.6) and Python 3.7. The analysis code is available at http://compbio.mit.edu/epimap.

Data Storage and Availability
Critical to the mission of HPAP is the distribution of data to interested diabetes researchers worldwide. After quality control assessment, all raw and processed data generated through HPAP are directly deposited—prior to publication—in a publicly accessible database (https://hpap.pmacs.upenn.edu). Depending on the assay type, the time from organ procurement to posting of the data on the PANC-DB website can vary from 2 weeks (donor information, islet isolation results, and islet perifusion data) to several months (RNA-Seq results). For optimization of the impact of HPAP and to accelerate discovery, access to these comprehensive data sets requires a minimal login, with only user registration and a commitment to source citing required. Importantly, all data sets are anonymized and compliant with HIPAA regulations. While the ability to download all HPAP data sets is the primary goal of the website, HPAP is continuously developing new data viewers to make the information more readily accessible and useful. For instance, with each deceased organ donor, a detailed “Donor Summary” section presents key patient data as well as information on organ processing. Likewise, an “Islet Isolation” page contains salient features from pancreas weight to islet purity. An image viewer displays preselected antibody channel combinations from IMC as multicolor microscopy images. Thus, users can view the endocrine markers, extracellular matrix proteins, or selected immune cell markers from the head, body, or tail of each pancreas with ease. Of course, after data download, every user can create any number of combinations from the >30 IMC channels collected. The islet composition data, determined with precision using CyTOF with a panel of 24 antibodies (38), are reported as pie charts for each donor (Fig. 3A and B), while islet function can be gleaned from glucagon and insulin secretion studies. Additional data viewers, in particular for the epigenomic and gene expression data, are under development.


